[Music]
twelve tips that will save your life in
a critical situation you never know what
surprises life has in stock it can take
you out of the comfort of your home or
office and put you in a place with no
electricity running water or even other
people there you will have to fight for
survival in such situations it is
important to keep a cool head and act
smart you never know what can become
extremely valuable to you even the most
everyday items can help you out bright
side will teach you how to use 12 basic
things in a critical situation to save
your life who could have thought
chapstick could be so powerful number 12
to start a fire quickly put branches or
coals into an empty egg carton starting
a fire is probably the most natural
thing that comes to your mind in an SOS
situation if your camping trip went not
exactly the way you planned or your car
broke and a desolate location or
something not less terrible happened
what will you do that's right you will
try to start a fire it will keep you
warm boiling some water and cook you a
meal you don't go camping with no food
supplies right more than that the sight
and smell of smoke will help your
rescuers find you starting a fire can be
sometimes tricky if you try doing it by
friction or with the help of a lens it
will be tricky in any case but even if
you have matches or a lighter with you
and you really should take them with you
if you are going to spend time in the
big wild outside it can still be a
problem because of the wind in that case
an empty egg carton will be of help
cartons light up very quickly and the
temperature is high enough to light up
coals or wet branches even in windy
weather number 11 use a t-shirt to
filter water
what can't human survive without no now
without a mobile phone or access to the
Internet even though it seems hard to
survive without all those gadgets these
days the lack of access to clean water
is something way more dangerous
technically you can live for 100 hours
without water but it is much better not
to risk it and take action you can use
your t-shirt as a water filter in an
emergency situation put a container with
dirty water on a raised surface and
another one empty below and next to it
tear off a piece of cloth and put one
end of it into the dirty water
the other end should be in the empty
container it's better to boil the
filtered water just in case number 10
light up a wax crayon we already know
how to start a fire using an empty egg
carton a wax crayon can also be of help
more than that you can use it as a
candle it consists of combustible
material one wax crayon can burn for 30
minutes you can use this crayon candle
to light your way to safety
or keep you warm as you wait to be
rescued don't forget to buy a new box of
crayons when you make it back home
number 9 to get warm put grass and
branches under your clothes starvation
and dehydration are not the only dangers
to your life in the wild it does not
matter if you got in trouble in the
winter or summer time hypothermia is
always a risk when your body loses heat
faster than it can produce it your
temperature drops to a dangerously low
mark for those cases when you don't even
have enough warm clothes or blankets or
need an extra layer leaves and grass can
be a solution they will help you keep
warm and protect you from hypothermia in
a critical situation number 8 mosquitoes
flies and other insects don't like the
smell of burning herbs insects are not
just annoying as they leave bloody itchy
marks on your body but are a real danger
since they can pass on viruses and
infection to protect yourself from being
bitten by insects throw a branch of time
or some mints onto a fire while you
might find the smell they produce the
best thing ever it is a deadly odor for
insects more than this that smell can
also scare wild animals number 7 use
toothpaste to get rid of the itch from
insect bites for those cases when
insects did manage to attack you and
your whole body is itching toothpaste is
the answer it contains anti-inflammatory
components that decrease swelling and
redness menthol will cool down the
bitten spot and reduce the itching now
it might not work every time when you
want your teeth whitened overnight but
toothpaste will be your good friend in a
natural environment with insects around
we are halfway through the basic
survivalist give this video a like if
you learn something new so far and keep
watching to find out how to make a
compass out of a leaf and how to tell a
deadly snake from a safe one number six
if you get scratched put chapstick on it
it is very easy to get scratched when
you are out trying to do everything
possible to save your life getting
brushwood for the fire or making your
way through the woods looking for
civilization there can be many reasons
why you get a scratch so take care of it
before it causes you big trouble
chapstick will help you avoid bacteria
in the cut you can also put some on your
face to protect yourself from low
temperatures and dehydration number 5
use a tampon to stop bleeding absorbing
blood is the immediate function of a
tampon we all know uh but not everyone
knows it can not only be used by ladies
once a month in fact it can be a
lifesaver a tampon is sterile it will
absorb the blood and stop even serious
bleeding number four a condom is a great
reservoir for pure water similar to a
tampon a condom can be used for
different purposes not just as a popular
birth control tool it is sterile and
strong in a critical situation it can be
used for storing pure water all you have
to do is attach a small tube to the neck
or some water into the condom and put it
into a sock you will have a reservoir
that you can store a liter of water in
having a supply of pure water as we all
know is super important to survive in
any conditions number three scrape off a
little bit of plastic from a pic and
light it to start a fire quickly you are
lucky if you have someone who plays the
guitar with you when you get lost or
maybe you are that someone guitar tunes
can help to cheer everyone up but that
is not the only benefit of being a
friend of music guitar picks consist of
celluloid that burns extremely well even
in wet weather so if you have a pick on
you you just have to scrape some plastic
off it and light it to start a fire
easily
quickly number two to make a compass put
a leaf on water and put a needle on the
leaf if you are lost you will most
definitely need a compass to find your
way out of the woods and out of trouble
the magnetic compass is an ingenious
invention of the Chinese it has gone
through centuries of transformations and
even comes as an app on your smartphone
what if you don't have a good old
magnetic compass and your phone battery
is dead making a compass turns out to be
easy mother nature will help you take a
needle or a pin and rub one end of it on
your jeans or any other dense fabric put
the needle on a leaf and water the end
that you rub will point to the north
number one how to tell a deadly snake
from a safe one the fear of snakes is
one of the most common and very natural
phobias it makes sense because no one
wants to die because of just one bite
this fear is growing strong when you are
stuck in the middle of nowhere and every
rustle sounds like a snake team however
not all snakes are deadly if you were
bitten by snake don't panic it might not
have been venomous here is how you can
tell a deadly snake from a safe one a
venomous snake leaves large clear holes
made by the front teeth non poisonous
snakes usually have two rows of teeth
venomous snakes pupils look similar to
cats non poisonous snakes have round
pupils dangerous snakes have solid
scales on the ventral side of the body
non-venomous snakes have porked scales
we hope you never find yourself in a
critical situation but if it happens to
you you will know what to do in any case
most of these tricks will do you well
even when your life is not at risk give
us a thumbs up if you liked this video
and subscribe to our channel not to miss
any important updates
you
[Music]